========
overview
========

Technically, Hired Guns is an RPG, including story, character progression,
choices and combat. It lacks maps and free movement though: exploration happens
through (illustrated) text.

From narrative point of view, Hired Guns is a set of loosely connected stories -
"missions" - about a space mercenary squad. Missions can be mandatory or
optional.

Hired Guns is set in a pulp sci-fi world. Humanity is spread over galaxy and
co-exist with other sentient races: cyber-cats, sentient robots, humanoid crows,
etc. There are few large "countries" consisting of many planetary systems and
lots of smaller planet-states.

structure
=========

As game is built around missions, main structure includes two stages.

- off mission: pc is at the base and player interacts with a network-connected
  computer, which can be used to get info, buy/sell stuff, hire mercenaries,
  browse and accept or deny job offers, communicate with other characters,
  travel to other planets

- on mission: after pc accepts a job and flies to target planet, mission starts;
  missions usually have branched scripts and include somewhat random events and
  combats

narrative
---------

Simply put, narrative is split into missions, but is kept together by
characters. It is quite possible there will be a global over-arching plot, but
it won't have big effect on most missions. Characters (especially mercenaries),
on the other hand, are present constantly and effort should be made to make them
as live as possible. Thus, they will both affect mission flow and have their own
personalities, dialogues and even stories.

Mission narrative is more mandatory and easier to make (it's more linear and
isolated), while character-based narrative provides more depth and
non-linearity. It's best to balance them properly.

grand scale gameplay
--------------------

This includes:

- character relationships (related to narrative as well)
- character building
- economics

On global scale, player should maintain each of these aspects on basic level to
succeed. However, viable balance can be acquired using different strategies.

character building
------------------

- mix fixed classes and flexible approaches: each player character
  has aptitudes towards a specific 'class'/build, but you can alter their
  development with some experience penalty

- no main character 'level', all aspects are controlled by individual skill/stat
  levels (?)

- 'proficiency' level, which is related not to a generic skill, but to a
  specific weapon model; it goes down if weapon is not used, thus penalizing
  constant weapon switching

combat
------

Combat is tightly coupled with character building: stats, skills, items - all
come into play here. However, while specific enemies should be designed
appropriate to mission and expected difficulty, there are basic principles to
combat as well.

First of all, combat happens on a grid to have some variety and space for
tactics. However, grid is small (currently used one is 5x4, may slightly change
in future), resulting in somewhat middle option between full-featured battle
ground with long ranges and obstacles and simplified menu-driven combat.

mercenaries
-----------

Basic mercenaries are predefined and unique. They have proper personalities,
back stories, etc.

It is also possible that additional 'generic' mercenaries will be available for
hiring to compensate loss of proper mercs. However, they will generally have
less interesting stats/skills/price.

missions
--------

Mission can be completely isolated or related to other missions. But in either
case, if it doesn't have dependencies (i.e. require to finish some previous
mission), it should be able to stand on its own. Connection can be by place,
characters or organizations involved.

It is possible that apart from proper missions, there will be random-generated
generic ones to allow for recovery from heavy economic loss.
